## LASI Spain 19: Call for papers

Learning Analytics has been called to improve learning practice by transforming the ways we develop and carry out learning and teaching activities and processes. In the particular context of Higher Education (HE) the pervasive integration of digital technology is influencing both teaching and learning practices, allowing access to new resources, functionality and data. Nowadays, existing online learning environments are used to communicate with students, distribute resources and perform some activities. These technologies have already been adopted and their use its natural. Now, it is time to move forward and to put the focus on increasing “quality”. Learning Analytics can play a key role in this new landscape and contribute to a significant change.

Learning analytics has emerged as a multi-disciplinary area of learning technology, taking advantage of information about learners to support teaching and learning processes. There are a variety of definitions and approaches. In some cases, the interest is on the prediction of educational outcomes or the estimation of student indicators with the purpose of tailoring education. Others put the focus on the support provided to educators understand the students’ behaviors and processes. In general, it is involved the measurement, collection, analysis and reporting of data about teaching and learning activities for the purposes of understanding and optimizing learning and learning environments. 

The eight edition of the Learning Analytics Summer Institute Spain 2019 (LASI Spain 2019), organized by Universidade de Vigo (Uvigo) in collaboration with SNOLA (Spanish Network of Learning Analytics) and TELGalicia, is part of the global LASI network, conceived as a platform to catalyze educators, technologists, researchers, enterprise and policymakers around shaping the next generation of learning infrastructures to truly serve the needs now facing the education sector.
